So let's move on to post processing,
the game could still
look a little bit better,
it kind of looks washed out to me,
and kinda needs a little bit
more to make it look complete.
So post processing can improve
the look of a game by applying full
screen effects after
a frame has been rendered.
So you can think of post processing
kind of like Photoshop effects or
Instagram filters.
And many effects tend to simulate
the properties of a real world camera.
So for example,
post processing effects can include bloom,
which applies a soft blur to
some brighter parts of the image
particularly in an HDR rendering
pipeline which we are using.
Tonemapping remaps HDR images into
linear dynamic range for your screen.
Chromatic aberration adds
subtle color shifting towards
the edges of a camera lens.
And that kinda simulates the breakdown
of light into its component parts.
So as you get closer to the curvature
of that camera lens, you would expect
white light to break down into a rainbow
so it kind of gives that effect.
You can add a vignette to darken the edges
of an image and help highlight the center.
And then there's another one I like called
Panini projection, which warps the view.
Again, similar to a camera lens,
you expect a lens to apply some
amount of warping to an image.
So let's go back to Unity and
apply all of those things,
I'll go ahead and save this scene.
And to do this,
we're going to use what's called a volume.
So I'll go up to the Create menu here.
And I'll go to the Volume menu, and
I'm going to create a new global volume.
And it's fine if it's just
called global volume.
I'll reset that to the center.
And a lot of the times,
you can use volumes as local volumes.
So if the player is, say,
moving through a space, like a dark cave,
and then out into an more open area,
you might wanna apply different
post processing effects,
depending on where the player is.
And so these volumes kind of
act like trigger colliders.
They will trigger different
post processing effects and
potentially other things
if you want them to.
And they can be weighted against one
another and loop between one another.
It's a really cool system, but
we're going to use it for post processing.
Right now it doesn't have any kind
of post processing volume profile.
So I'll just hit the New
button to create a new one.
And I'm gonna switch
over to the game view so
that we can see what effect each one
of these is having as we apply it.
So I'm going to add bloom, and there's
some checkboxes we need to hit there.
So we need to enable the thresholds and
intensity,
I'll set that to an intensity of, say, 1.
And I'll enable high quality
filtering there, just so
we get a few benefits of higher
quality filtering which will
allow it to not maybe flicker quite so
much.
And there's other things you can add here,
I encourage you to play with these
settings, but let's keep going.
We'll add tonemapping, and then we need
to check that we want to use that.
We'll set the mode to ACES, which I
forget exactly what that stands for,
but it is a standard set by the academy,
as in the Oscars.
And so
it's a pretty good tone mapping technique.
We'll apply chromatic aberration.
And for this one, there's just an
intensity slider, but as I slide that to
a very extreme value, you can see what
it's doing at the edges of the image.
I don't want it to be quite that intense.
So I'll just set it to
maybe a value of 0.1,
just to give us a little bit
of chromatic aberration.
And this is one of those things where
a lot of subtle effects add up to
an image that is greater
than the sum of its parts.
So we'll have that subtle
chromatic aberration.
We're going to add a vignette and
increase the intensity.
Again, this is something that beginners
tend to get very carried away with, so
that's what an extreme value looks like,
we don't want to do that.
So we'll just set this to maybe
a value of 0.2 or something like that.
And I'll turn this on and
off so you can see how it's kind
of darkening the edges of the image,
and that just has a tendency to
kind of brighten up the center
of the image by contrast.
So finally, I'll add Panini projection,
And that's going to warp the image so
that we get some of the properties
of a physical camera.
And again, I wanna keep this subtle, so
maybe a value of 0.1 should look good.
And that's actually pretty intense,
let's do that a little less, maybe 0.05.
I think that looks good.
And something you may have noticed
is that when we applied bloom,
this collectible kinda got brighter.
And it's because it's using
an emissive surface that's actually
just setting a color as its default
color that it's displaying to the world,
it's kind of overriding some of
the other properties of the shader.
So we have this global volume.
I'll hit Play.
And now we got a much nicer looking image.
It's kind of much closer to
the physical properties that you would
expect from a real world camera.